Today is the feast of Saint Isidore of Seville.
Born around the year 560 AD, Isidore's family stressed the importance of education from
his youth.
While Isidore was a well-mannered child, at one point he became so upset by the rigor
of his education that he ran away.
After some time away, Isidore realized his family only meant well for him, and he would
return home with a renewed zeal towards his study.
His family, under the tutelage of his older brother, agreed to soften their severe punishments
if he agreed not to run away again.
While studying, Isidore would encounter the great thinkers of Christendom.
Isidore began to have a burning love for theology after studying the likes of Saint Augustine.
He would also cultivate a love for Greek language and philosophy.
Encouraged and strengthened by these new guides, Isidore would soon become a teacher
in Europe.
He wrote books on topics such as grammar, astronomy, and geography.
As Isidore was restoring order in the universities and centers of learning, the air of Arianism
was growing strong and taking root in the newly baptized Visigoths.
Isidore knew full well the horror of the Arians.
In many respects, he was standing with the great Saint Athanasius, whom he studied in
his youth.
After being raised to the level of bishop, Isidore used his understanding of philosophy
and theology to fight and defeat Arianism in his diocese.
Isidore lived to be nearly 80, until his death in 636 AD.
He is regarded as the most learned man of his age and exercised a far-reaching and immeasurable
influence on the educational life of the Middle Ages.